add v1.1.1 release notes (#2781)
pingcap/tidb-operator: CHANGELOG-1.1.md

# TiDB Operator v1.1.1 Release Notes

## Notable changes

> - Add `additionalContainers` and `additionalVolumes` fields so that Tidb-operator can support adding sidecars to `TiDB`, `TiKV`, `PD`, etc. ([#2229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2229), [@yeya24](https://github.com/yeya24))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the `additionalContainers` and `additionalVolumes` fields so that TiDB Operator can support adding sidecars to `TiDB`, `TiKV`, `PD`, etc. ([#2229](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2229), [@yeya24](https://github.com/yeya24))
```

> - Do not scale or upgrade TiKV at the same time ([#2705](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2705), [@DanielZhangQD](https://github.com/DanielZhangQD))

Reviewer: @DanielZhangQD PTAL. 不建议用祈使句。
```suggestion
- Add cross check to ensure TiKV is not scaled or upgraded at the same time ([#2705](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2705), [@DanielZhangQD](https://github.com/DanielZhangQD))
```

> - Fix the bug TidbMonitor will scrape multi TidbCluster with same same in different namespace when then namespace in `ClusterRef` not set ([#2746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2746), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the bug that TidbMonitor will scrape multi TidbCluster with the same name in different namespaces when then namespace in `ClusterRef` is not set ([#2746](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2746), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
```

> - TiDB Operator examples updated to deploy TiDB Cluster 4.0.0 images ([#2600](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2600), [@kolbe](https://github.com/kolbe))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Update TiDB Operator examples to deploy TiDB Cluster 4.0.0 images ([#2600](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2600), [@kolbe](https://github.com/kolbe))
```

> - TiDB Operator examples updated to deploy TiDB Cluster 4.0.0 images ([#2756](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2756), [@ti-srebot](https://github.com/ti-srebot))

Reviewer 2: This is a cherry-picked PR.

Author: fixed

> - Add alertMangerAlertVersion option to TidbMonitor ([#2744](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2744), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the `alertMangerAlertVersion` option to TidbMonitor ([#2744](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2744), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))
```

- Fix alert rules lost after rolling upgrade ([#2715](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2715), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))
- Fix an issue that pods may be stuck in pending for a long time in scale-out after a scale-in ([#2709](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2709), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))
- Add `EnableDashboardInternalProxy` in `PDSpec` to let user directly visit PD Dashboard ([#2713](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2713), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

> - Fix the pv syncing error when `TidbMonitor` and `TidbCluster` have different value in `reclaimPolicy` ([#2707](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2707), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix the PV syncing error when `TidbMonitor` and `TidbCluster` have different values in `reclaimPolicy` ([#2707](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2707), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
```

- Update Configuration to v4.0.1 ([#2702](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2702), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

> - Change tidb-discovery strategy type to `Recreate` ([#2701](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2701), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))

Reviewer 3: This will cause `tidb-discovery` rolling update, do we need a release note?

> - Change tidb-discovery strategy type to `Recreate` ([#2701](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2701), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))

Reviewer 4: I think the release note here should be `Fix the bug that discovery pod could exist one more instances in some cases`.

Author: cc @weekface what do you think?

Reviewer 3: agree

> - Expose `Dashboard` service with `HTTP` endpoint whether `tlsCluster` is enabled ([#2684](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2684), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Expose the `Dashboard` service with `HTTP` endpoint whether `tlsCluster` is enabled ([#2684](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2684), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
```

> - Add `.tikv.dataSubDir` field to specify subdirectory within the data volume to store TiKV data ([#2682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2682), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the `.tikv.dataSubDir` field to specify subdirectory within the data volume to store TiKV data ([#2682](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2682), [@cofyc](https://github.com/cofyc))
```

> - Add `imagePullSecrets` attribute to all components ([#2679](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2679), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Add the `imagePullSecrets` attribute to all components ([#2679](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2679), [@weekface](https://github.com/weekface))
```

> - Make StatefulSet and Pod validation webhook could work at the same time ([#2664](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2664), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enable StatefulSet and Pod validation webhook to work at the same time ([#2664](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2664), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
```

> - Emit an event if failed to sync labels to TiKV stores ([#2587](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2587), [@PengJi](https://github.com/PengJi))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Emit an event if it fails to sync labels to TiKV stores ([#2587](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2587), [@PengJi](https://github.com/PengJi))
```

> - Make`ldatasource` information hidden in log for `Backup` and `Restore` job ([#2652](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2652), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

Reviewer: @Yisaer PTAL
```suggestion
- Make `datasource` information hidden in log for `Backup` and `Restore` jobs ([#2652](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2652), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
```

Author: thanks, the fix is correct, it's my typo

> - Support `DynamicConfiguration` switch in TidbCluster Spec ([#2539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2539), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Support the `DynamicConfiguration` switch in TidbCluster Spec ([#2539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2539), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
```

> - Support `DynamicConfiguration` in `TiDB Operator` feature gates ([#2539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2539), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

Reviewer 4: Support `DynamicConfiguration` switch in `TidbCluster` Spec.

Author: done

- Support `LoadBalancerSourceRanges` in the `ServiceSpec` for the `TidbCluster` and `TidbMonitor` ([#2610](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2610), [@shonge](https://github.com/shonge))
- Support `Dashboard` metrics ability for `TidbCluster` when `TidbMonitor` deployed ([#2483](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2483), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))

> - Bump dm version to v2.0.0-beta.1 ([#2615](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2615), [@tennix](https://github.com/tennix))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bump the DM version to v2.0.0-beta.1 ([#2615](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2615), [@tennix](https://github.com/tennix))
```

- support setting discovery resources ([#2434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2434), [@shonge](https://github.com/shonge))

> - User now can specify `ReadyToScaleThresholdSeconds` in `TidbClusterAutoScaler`, until cluster keep in ready to auto scale status for `ReadyToScaleThresholdSeconds` seconds, then cluster start auto scaling ([#2307](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2307), [@vincent178](https://github.com/vincent178))

Reviewer: The clause after `until` looks weird, but I'm not sure the correct meaning. @cofyc Can you say it in Chinese?
```suggestion
- Allow users to specify `ReadyToScaleThresholdSeconds` in `TidbClusterAutoScaler`, until the cluster keeps in ready to auto scale status for `ReadyToScaleThresholdSeconds` seconds, then cluster start auto scaling ([#2307](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2307), [@vincent178](https://github.com/vincent178))
```

Reviewer 4: `Support the \`Denoising\` for the TidbCluster Auto-scaling.`

Reviewer: @cofyc Please update this note as Yisaer proposed.

- Emit an event if it fails to sync labels to TiKV stores ([#2587](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2587), [@PengJi](https://github.com/PengJi))
- Make `datasource` information hidden in log for `Backup` and `Restore` jobs ([#2652](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2652), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
- Support the `DynamicConfiguration` switch in TidbCluster Spec ([#2539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2539), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
- Support `LoadBalancerSourceRanges` in the `ServiceSpec` for the `TidbCluster` and `TidbMonitor` ([#2610](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2610), [@shonge](https://github.com/shonge))
- Support `Dashboard` metrics ability for `TidbCluster` when `TidbMonitor` deployed ([#2483](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2483), [@Yisaer](https://github.com/Yisaer))
- Bump the DM version to v2.0.0-beta.1 ([#2615](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2615), [@tennix](https://github.com/tennix))
- support setting discovery resources ([#2434](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2434), [@shonge](https://github.com/shonge))

> - Allow users to specify `ReadyToScaleThresholdSeconds` in `TidbClusterAutoScaler`, until the cluster keeps in ready to auto scale status for `ReadyToScaleThresholdSeconds` seconds, then cluster start auto scaling ([#2307](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2307), [@vincent178](https://github.com/vincent178))

Reviewer 4: ```suggest
- Support the Denoising for the `TidbCluster` Auto-scaling ([#2307](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-operator/pull/2307), [@vincent178](https://github.com/vincent178))
```
